---
Name: Marcelo Perez
Semester: Fall 22
Course: CIS 106
---
 
 # Week Report 5

## What are Command Options?
Commands are often followed by options that can modify/enhance the commands behavior.
## What are Command Arguments?
Commands are also followed by arguments which are the items open which the command acts on. 
## Which command is used for creating directories? Provide at least 3 examples.
mkdir is used for creating a single directory or multiple directories.
Examples:
1. **mkdir wallpapers** (creates a directory in the pwd)
2. **mkdir ~/wallpapers/forest** (creates a directory in a different directory using absolute path)
3. **mkdir wallpapers/cars wallpapers/cities wallpapers/forest** (create multiple directories)
## What does the touch command do? Provide at least 3 examples.
The touch command is used for creating files
Examples:
1. **touch list** (creates a file called list)
2. **touch ~/Downloads/games.txt** (creates a file using absolute path)
3. **touch list_of_cars.txt script.py names.csv** (creates several files)
## How do you remove a file? Provide an example.
The rm command deletes files. The rm command cannot remove directories unless you use the command **rm -r**.
Examples: 
**rm list.txt** (will remove the list.txt file)
## How do you remove a directory and can you remove non-empty directories in Linux? Provide an example
Directories can be removed in Linux. The command to remove an empty directory is **rmdir** and the command for removing a non-empty directory is **rm -r**
Examples:
**rmdir ~/Documents/CIS-106-Fall-22/Surveys** (will delete the empty Surveys directory)
**rm -r ~/Documents/CIS-106-Fall-22/Week_Reports/Week4** (will remove all files in the directory then remove the directory Week4)
## Explain the mv and cp command. Provide at least 2 examples of each.
the **mv** command moves and renames directories. 
Examples: 
**mv Downloads/homework.pdf Documents/** (will move a directory from one to another using relative path)
**mv games/ wallpapers/ rockmusic/ /media/student/flashdrive/** (moves multiple directories to a different directory.) 


